Networks in digital humanities can provide a way to find many connections with just about anything. In the Demystifying Networks article, Scott B. Weingart explains that a network is "a net-like arrangement of threads, wires, etc." (Weingart, Demystifying Networks, Parts I and II) Networking is also simply known as a complex interlocking system that shows relationships with things we may not have thought to have any connection with at all. It is possible to make a network with anything that has a connection with something else. In this paper, I will discuss the network analysis of NFL receivers, and the NFL defensivive players that they are tackled by. I will also discuss the importance of why the connection of receiver and tackler may matter in network analysis, and mention any particular arguments that may appear within this project.

The network that is shown below of NFL receivers, and the defensive players that they are tackled by was created in Gephi. In order to create this network, I first had to edit a complete edge and node list, in order to fit correctly in Gephi and produce the best results. Before editing the edge and node list, I first had to download the data from the edge list and open it in excel. Gephi will not function correctly if the data is opened in Microsoft Word. When I opened the edge list in Excel two columns appeared. One column had receivers, and the other had the defensive player's who tackled the receivers. I renamed the two columns, source and target. I also switched the columns around, so it would be easier to understand who tackled who. In order for me to create my nodes list, I had to take every name from the edge list, and put them into one single column. I put each player's name in alphabetical order, and deleated all the repeating names. Then I renamed the column to ID, leaving me with 20 offensive players, and 20 defensive players. An edge list are lines that connect to points, which are known as nodes. The edges and nodes in a network allow us to see different connections that can lead to new interesting information. When my graph was created I noticed it was pretty difficult to read with all the edges overlapping each other. So in order to make the graph easier to understand, I changed the layout to "Fruchterman Reingold". This layout was more spread out, and easier to tell the connection between who tackled which receiver. 

While working with data of NFL receivers and defensive players, some questions came to mind. I am very curious to know if the data could detect the experience, or skill of each player. For instance, I wonder if the data can show that more experienced defensive players have more tackles than rookie receivers. I would also like to know how many times each defensive player has tackled each receiver, because the graph only shows that the receiver has been tackled once by that particular defensive player. 

There are plenty of positives that come with working with networks. One great thing about working with networks, is that you can make a network on just about anything you can think of. "Generally network studies are made under the assumption that neither the stuff nor the relationship are the whole story on their own." (Weingart, Demystifying Networks, Parts I and II) If you assume that something has a connection with something, there is a high chance you can create a network out of it. Even though there are lots of positives with networks, there tend to be some negatives aspects as well. One negative aspect with networks, is that people tend to get carried away with the usage of networking. Since networking can be used with many different things, people sometimes use it in the wrong situations, making things more difficult than they need to be. Weingart mentions that networks can be used on any project, but should be used on far fewer (Weingart).

Work Cited:

Newman, Mark "Networks: An Introduction". 2010.

Weingart, Scott B. "Demystifying Networks, Parts I & II". *Journal of Digital Humanities*. 2011.
