Networks in the realm of digital humanities present a fascinating way to explore the connections between any number of things. If something is connected to something else, it can be made into a network. In this particular network, what is shown is the various Supreme Court decisions on abortion. Created in Gephi, the network is relatively small and interconnected. 

There split between liberal (green) and non-liberal (blue) decisions is about even. Who the chief judge was did not affect the liberalness of the decision, for the chief judge on some of the liberal decisions also handed down what are considered non liberal decisions. The centrality of the liberal cases is noteworthy, and they are generally the most well connected cases. 410US113, the landmark decision of Roe v Wade is connected to most of the cases presented. It has the highest out degree range, while Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey had the most in degrees. What these networks leave one with is a sense of confusion about the decisions relating to the issue of abortion. It is difficult to track any trends, so it begs the question if there are any trends at all in regards to abortion cases in the US. Is there a correlation between what year the case was heard, the judges that were on the bench, or the president at the time? 

One of the great things about Gephi is the relatively easiness of the program to navigate for a beginner. The problems with Gephi however are numerous, such as the difficulty of inputting information, the inability to navigate the network display easily, and glitches like displaying a completely inaccurate and nonexistent case title in a network, despite it not being anywhere in the nodes table. Using the coding language R would make the process a lot easier, and it would make the visualization better. Working with R is a lot smoother, and it is easier to fix errors using R than using Gephi. 

Networks can also incorporate a number of other methods used in the digital humanities, such as mapping and topic modeling. In relation to Supreme Court cases, it would be interesting to topic model the majority and even potentially the minority opinions in relation to some of the cases. That could help give a better understanding of the court cases, and the reasoning behind them. Although it would not necessarily be a network, it would also be interesting to map and see what court cases originated where across the country, and if certain types of cases were more prevalent in certain parts of the country. 

One of the great things about using networks, that it can be used on anything, is also one of its biggest limitations. Weingart points this out almost immediately, saying that “When you’re first given a hammer, everything looks like a nail.” (Weingart, Demystifying Networks, Parts I & II). Because anything can be a network, there is the danger of making anything into a network and creating something with little thought to process, reason, and methodology. It can also get carried away which an issue is given the limited amount of nodes a person can have in a network. Having one mode is a definite possibility, having two types of nodes is pushing the envelope, and having three types of nodes is practically impossible. While this is perhaps a good thing since it limits and helps confine the networks within certain parameters, it could in some cases become too constraining. There is also the issue of limitations of the data itself, such as the Republic of Letters Weingart discusses, which only has a small portion of the letters written, and does not give more specific information in its presentation such as who it was written to or where specifically it was sent (Weingart, Contextualizing networks with maps).

Another problem with networks comes not from the network itself, but from the presentation of the network. In cases like the Linked Jazz network created by Pratt, there is no way to read certain parts of the network such as centrality, or what different colors mean in the network, if they mean anything at all. In Weingart’s other piece, the Maps of Science at first glance make little sense, and understanding takes a lot more contextualization (Weingart, Contextualizing networks with maps).

