#NFL Network Analysis

NFL Network Image 1:


Network Image 1: ![alt text](https://github.com/introdh2016/response3_network/blob/porter/screenshot_2.png?raw=true "NFL Network Image 1")

Network Image 2: ![alt text](https://github.com/introdh2016/response3_network/blob/porter/screenshot.png?raw=true "NFL Network Image 2")

      In this paper I will be discussing the network analysis of receivers in the NFL and who they are tackled by and the 
frequency of certain tacklers with certain receivers. 
      To being with, I will first discuss the significance of using networks in the field of digital humanities to further 
discover new insights in certain areas of interests. A network, simply explained, "is a collection of points joined together 
in pairs by lines" (Newman, "Networks: An Introduction"). These lines, called edges, connect the points, called nodes, in 
order to show significant connections between nodes which can then lead to the discovery of new information. For instance, 
in my network, the connection of the nodes highlights which defensive players tackle the most receivers and which receivers 
get tackled the most. In a bigger picture though, one of the true advantages of network analysis is that "pretty much any data 
can be studied via network analysis" (Weingart, "Demystifying Networks, Parts I & II"). To exemplify this, in our digital 
humanities class, we were able to analyze both the references of different supreme court cases used by other supreme court 
cases, and the frequency of tackles occurred between certain NFL wide-receivers and defensive players. Networks are able to 
span from music, to politics, to sports, and many other areas in order to discover new and significant insights. In terms of 
digital humanities however, networking can become more complicated. According to Scott B. Weingart, "Humanistic data [is] 
almost by definition uncertain, open to interpretation, flexible, and not easily definable". This is problem because "Node 
types are by definition concrete". In the field of humanities, when one is studying race relations or political data, often 
times there are lots of interfering variables that it can be difficult to scale down to one singular cause and effect that is 
then translated into a node and edge list. Thankfully, since the nodes in my project are strictly defined, I did not run into 
this problem. 
       For my project, I did a bimodal network, which is "a network with two types of nodes" (Weingart, "Demystifying Networks, 
Parts 1 & 2"). The two types of nodes in my project are NFL receivers and NFL defensive players that have tackled those 
receivers. The edges connect certain defensive players with receivers that they have tackled in the past. When creating my 
network, I first input my nodes and edge list and got what is labeled above as "NFL Network Image 1". As you can see, 
the nodes are overlapping and quite condensed. This was hard to read and just did not look appealing. In order to rectify this, 
I changed the layout of the nodes to "Fruchterman Reingold" to get what you see above labeled as "NFL Network Image 2". As you 
can see, this made the network much easier to read and the nodes are not overlapping nearly as much. From here, I was able to 
begin gathering information and forming questions about my data.
       The main information this network gives me is who tackles who the most, which tacklers tackle the widest range of 
receivers, and which receivers are tackled by the widest range of defensive players. For example, I am able to infer that 
Byron Maxwell of the Philadelphia Eagles has tackled a wide range of receivers, specifically nine. As for receivers, I am able 
to see that Demaryius Thomas of the Denver Broncos has been tackled by the least amount of defensive players, only three. 
However one thing my network does not tell me is how many times each receiver is tackled by each defensive player. For 
instance, Demaryius Thomas being tackled by only three different receivers makes it seem like he is a very good receiver. 
However, if he had gotten tackled many times by those three receiver, more so than a receiver tackled only a few times by lets 
say six different tacklers, one could say that Demaryius Thomas is not actually as good as the other receiver tackled by six 
different defensive players. 
        This leads to my first question posed by this data: how many times is each receiver tackled by each defensive player? 
This is crucial information, as it does not matter the amount of different tacklers that tackle you, but the total amount of 
times you are tackled that makes you a good or bad receiver. Another question that is generated is what influence does 
home-field advantage have on the performance of these players? It is well known that when a player is performing on their home 
turf, they are much more likely to have a better game. So do these receivers get tackled less or do the defenders get more 
tackles when they are playing on their home field, and what effect does this have on the information in my network? A third 
question that was posed was pertaining to the scheduling of the NFL games. I would argue that at the beginning of the season, 
coming off a long off season, players may perform worse than they would after they are used to playing a lot of games like 
they are at the end of the season. Do receivers get tackled more at the beginning of the season and is this reflected in my 
network as well? These questions are not answered by my network but I feel like they definitely have an impact on the data 
provided.

Work Cited:

Newman, Mark "Networks: An Introduction". 2010.

Weingart, Scott B. "Demystifying Networks, Parts I & II". *Journal of Digital Humanities*. 2011.
